The compilation process in C involves several stages, which can be summarized as follows:

Preprocessing: In this stage, the preprocessor scans the source code and performs text substitutions, including the expansion of macros and the inclusion of header files. The preprocessed code is output to a new file with a .i extension.
The command to run the preprocessor is cpp or gcc -E. For example, to preprocess the file example.c and save the output to example.i, you can use the command:

Copy code
gcc -E example.c -o example.i
Compilation: In this stage, the compiler reads the preprocessed code and generates assembly code, which is platform-specific and usually stored in a file with a .s extension.
The command to run the compiler is cc1 or gcc -S. For example, to compile the file example.i and save the output to example.s, you can use the command:

Copy code
gcc -S example.i -o example.s
Assembly: In this stage, the assembler reads the assembly code and generates object code, which is binary code specific to the processor architecture. The object code is usually stored in a file with a .o extension.
The command to run the assembler is as or gcc -c. For example, to assemble the file example.s and save the output to example.o, you can use the command:

r
Copy code
gcc -c example.s -o example.o
Linking: In this stage, the linker combines the object code with other object files and libraries to generate an executable file. The linker also performs symbol resolution and relocation of addresses.
The command to run the linker is ld or gcc. For example, to link the file example.o with the standard C library and generate the executable file example, you can use the command:

Copy code
gcc example.o -o example
Note that these commands are for Unix-based systems such as Linux and macOS. On Windows, the commands may be slightly different, and the file extensions may be different as well. Additionally, some C compilers may combine several stages into a single command, or may have different options and behaviors. It is important to consult the documentation for your specific compiler to understand its behavior and usage.




